Congratulations.
You've just finished the second lesson of this course.
Now let's summarize what we've learned.
First, we talked about the DICOM standard and what a DICOM file is.
Then we talked about what the patient study is and a series.
After that, we learned that a DICOM file
consists of attributes about patient information,
patient study, and series,
as well as the images themselves.
In the second section,
we mainly talked about the image attributes in a DICOM file;
how to read and extract images using the pyDICOM package,
what we should pay attention to when we look at an image,
and how to explore image intensity profiles at the pixel level.
In the third section,
we discussed how to prepare non-image data for machine learning
using the DICOM header that contains all of the non-image attributes.
The DICOM header has a wealth of information such as patient data,
series and study and we have to explore
the DICOM header carefully before developing our algorithm.
We also looked at some examples where DICOM headers provide us important information.
In the last section,
we talked about metadata that represents a population.
Metadata can come from several sources;
DICOM header, patient history, and image labels.
We need to extract data features before we train
the model and some useful tools for that are histograms,
scatter plots, Pearson correlation coefficient, and co-occurrence matrices.
Congratulations on completing this lesson and I'll see you in the next one.